## Bundling with Parcel

- What is Web Bundling?
Web bundling is the process of fetching, resolving, packing, reducing a tree of dependencies into compressed static files that you may readily host on the web. The original pioneering package in web bundling is the famous Webpack. Webpack provides a sophisticated configuration interface to allow the developer to customize certain stages in the web bundling pipeline.

For most mundane use cases, web bundling does not need explicit customization. This is where bundlers like Parcel.js come into the picture: Parcel.js allows you to bundle your web application with no configuration file. (note: Since Webpack 4, Webpack also offers basic web bundling with no configuration file.)

- Benefits of Web Bundling
Immediate benefits that we can draw from using web bundlers are:

Ability to scale without hurdles: Web bundlers can map out and bundle thousands and thousands of files that are linked with each other. You do not have to worry about adding complex build processes to accommodate the scale of your codebase.
File compression: The web bundling process involves a compression stage, ultimately reducing the size of your website. This is great for your visitors (and your bandwidth meter).
Safely use latest tech for the web: You can utilize packages from the NPM registry without worrying about how you can include hundreds of packages into the final build of your website.

### How to use Parcel.js
We now understand the necessity of web bundlers. Let’s dive into how to use Parcel.js for bundling our applications.

Step 1: Install parcel from the NPM registry

Once you have your NPM project setup, you can install parcel with the following command:

npm install --save-dev parcel
Step 2: Add an NPM script for bundling your application with Parcel.js

I have already mentioned how simple Parcel.js is. All you have to do is provide Parcel.js with the entry file (your main HTML file) and it will discover all the other files automatically. Here is the NPM Script I have in this project:

"bundle": "parcel build index.html --no-source-maps"

This command will direct Parcel.js to bundle my application, outputting the final files into a dist folder. The --no-source-maps flag tells Parcel.js to not build map files for JS and CSS files (map files are development files to allow you to view the original code in the browser)

When you run that script, Parcel.js will output the following:

➜  bundling-with-parcel git:(master) ✗ npm run bundle                                                                                       
> bundling-with-parcel@1.0.0 bundle /home/asakr/bundling-with-parcel
> parcel build index.html --no-source-maps
✨  Built in 1.26s.
dist/transform.909609cc.js    6.81 KB     57ms
dist/index.html                 502 B      8ms
dist/style.2158241e.css         363 B    735ms
Parcel.js scanned my index.html file, found that it provides references to style.css and transform.js , so it grabbed them and built them. When Parcel.js was building transform.js , it found that it makes use of an NPM module called md5 . It automatically pulled and bundled the relevant md5 implementation right into the final dist/transform.909609cc.js file that you see in the output above!

Using a web bundler, my website is now only 3 files!! how amazing is that??

Feel free to take a look at the repository (https://github.com/ahmedsakr/bundling-with-parcel) to see the entirety of the codebase. You can also clone the repository and try running Parcel.js yourself. I hope this tutorial provided a reference point for you regarding the importance of web bundlers.