## Encapsulation: Private Class Fields and Methods

Private class features
- Class fields are public by default, but private class members can be created by using a hash # prefix. The privacy encapsulation of these class features is enforced by JavaScript itself.

Private members are not native to the language before this syntax existed. In prototypical inheritance, its behavior may be emulated with WeakMap objects or closures, but they can't compare to the # syntax in terms of ergonomics.

Syntax
```
class ClassWithPrivate {
  #privateField;
  #privateFieldWithInitializer = 42;

  #privateMethod() {
    // …
  }

  static #privateStaticField;
  static #privateStaticFieldWithInitializer = 42;

  static #privateStaticMethod() {
    // …
  }
}
```
- There are some additional syntax restrictions:

All private identifiers declared within a class must be unique. The namespace is shared between static and instance properties. The only exception is when the two declarations define a getter-setter pair.
The private identifier cannot be #constructor.
Description
Most class features have their private counterparts:

Private fields
Private methods
Private static fields
Private static methods
Private getters
Private setters
Private static getters
Private static setters
These features are collectively called private properties. However, constructors cannot be private in JavaScript. To prevent classes from being constructed outside of the class, you have to use a private flag.

Private properties are declared with # names (pronounced "hash names"), which are identifiers prefixed with #. The hash prefix is an inherent part of the property name — you can draw relationship with the old underscore prefix convention _privateField — but it's not an ordinary string property, so you can't dynamically access it with the bracket notation.

It is a syntax error to refer to # names from outside of the class. It is also a syntax error to refer to private properties that were not declared in the class body, or to attempt to remove declared properties with delete.
```
class ClassWithPrivateField {
  #privateField;

  constructor() {
    this.#privateField = 42;
    delete this.#privateField; // Syntax error
    this.#undeclaredField = 444; // Syntax error
  }
}

const instance = new ClassWithPrivateField();
instance.#privateField === 42; // Syntax error
```