## Selecting, creating and deleting elements

- In this lecture we're gonna learn how to select, create and delete elements with JavaScript. Now, the goal of this lecture is more to be like a quick reference for you in the future because these methods are actually way more difficult to find and to understand from the MDN documentation.
 And let's start by learning a little bit more about selecting elements. And I'm gonna start at the very top of any HTML document and so actually we do have a special way of selecting the entire document of any webpage, so of any document and that's **document.element**.
 ```
 console.log(document.document.element);
 ```
 - And we can also easily select the head and body. So for these other special elements we don't even need to write any selector but otherwise as you already know, we can use query selector. So that's nothing new, for example we can select the header element just like this and this will then return the first element that matches this selector here.
```
 console.log(document.head);
 console.log(document.body);
```
- Now, if we want to select multiple elements then we should use document.queryselectorAll. 
```
  document.querySelector(".header");
  document.querySelectorAll(".section");
```
- Next we will talk about **getElementById**. And so here we only pass the ID name itself without the selector. 
```
document.getElementById("section--1");
```
- And is alos getElementsByTagName and so let's say we want to get all the buttons. So all the elements with the name of button basically.
```
const allButtons = document.getElementsByTagName("button");
```
- Now this method actually returns an HTML collection so that's different from a node list because an HTML collection is actually a so-called life collection and that means that if the DOM changes then this collection is also immediately updated automatically. 
- And finally the last element is **getElementByClassName**. So this is similar again to get element by ID and get elements by tag name so here we can now specify a class name.
```
getElementByClassName("btn");
```
- Next up, let's talk about creating and inserting elements. Now we can create HTML elements using the **insertAdjacent** HTML function that we used before and the Bankist application. So we used insert adjacent HTML to create movements and this is a quick and easy way of creating elements. 
- Another way of creating elements is using **document.createElement**.
```
const message = document.createElement("div");
``` 
- In order to attach a message to the header we can use the the **prepend** method.
```
header.prepend(message);
```  
- So what matters here is that we just inserted this element really into our HTML, so right into our DOM so prepending basically adds the element as the first child of this element. But we can also edit as the last child and so that is header.append
```
header.append(message);
```
- There are actually two more methods and that is **before** and **after**. And as the name says this one will insert a message before to header element so as a sibling and this one here after the header element, so also as a sibling.
```
header.before(message);
hader.after(message);
```
- So that is how we create and insert elements, programmatically and now to finish, let's also delete elements.
 So what I'm going to do is to remove an element when we click a button.
 ```
 document.querySelector(".btn").addEventListener("click", function(){
  message.remove();
 });
 ``` 
- Before this method existed all we could do was to remove child elements and so back then we had to select the parent element first and then remove the child from there.
 ```
 document.querySelector(".btn").addEventListener("click", function(){
  message.parentElement.removeChild(message);
 });
 ``` 
 