## Styles, Attributes and Classes

- So here, we're going to learn about styles, and attributes, so to set a style on an element we get the element.style and then . the property name and remember this we'll have to use the camelCase version, so backgroundColor, and then a string with the value so here the color that I want is this one so it's just kind of dark blue.
```
mesage.style.backgroundColor = "#37383d";
```
- We can also set the width, and remember that we have to write the CSS value exactly as we would do in CSS, and so we always have to include the unit.
```
message.style.width = "100%";
```
- And remember that these styles are actually set as inline styles, so styles set directly here in the DOM. 

- Let's also work with CSS custom properties, which we usually just call CSS variables.
- And the idea of CSS variables is of course very similar to the idea of variables in JavaScript, so this way we can change the value in many places all over our CSS files by simply changing the value here. Now, if we can change the value here in our CSS, then we can also change it right from JavaScript.
```
document.documentElement.style.setProperty("color-primary", "red");
```
- So with this we can easily change the style of our page, simply by setting one property **setProperty** and then we pass in the name of the property and the value. And by the way, we can do the same for all properties, so we could also use setProperty to set the color, or the background color, or the width, or really whatever we want, okay, but usually it's just easier to simply do it like this.

- In HTML  there are we do use attributes for certain elements like src, alt, even the class, and the ID are simply attributes of this element and so in JavaScript we can of course access and change these different attributes. 
```
const logo = document.querySelector(".nav_logo");
console.log(logo.alt);
console.log(logo.src);
console.log(logo.className);
```
- So now we can access some of these, let's say default properties, so like the alt or the source attribute.  
- There is another way of reading this value from the DOM, it's just a little bit more difficult, but it's not a problem, so we can use **getAttribute**,
```
console.log(logo.getAttribute("src"));
```
- We can also set them so we can say logo.alt  should be Beautiful logo. 
```
console.log(logo.setAttribute("beatiful logo"));
```
Finally, there is also a special type of attributes and that's data attributes. So data, and data attributes are a special kind of attributes that start with the words data.
```
console.log(logo.dataSet.versionNumber);
```
  Finally to make it complete, let's talk about classes 
  Example of classes:
```
logo.classList.add("c");
logo.classList.remove("c");
logo.classList.toggle("c");
logo.classList.contains("c");
```

  