## Working with strings: part 3

This is the third and final part of Working With Strings. And let's start by learning about one of the most powerful string methods, which is **split**.
- So split allows us to split a string into multiple parts based on a divider string. So let's check that out. 
So any string works here, let's say A+very+nice+string. So let's say that for some reason we have a string like this and now on this string we can call the split method. Here we need to specify a divider string. So let's just use plus, and so what will happen now is that it will split up this string by this plus sign and it will then store the results into elements of a new array. So let's see that, and indeed we get an array which contains A, and very, and nice, and string. So essentially everything's split up by this divider string. So let's try the same with my name.split. And so the goal here is off having one array, which two elements, one for each name. And so I can split by the space. And this is a very common one and so indeed I get this result and this is really useful.
```
console.log("A+very+nice+string".split("+"));
console.log("Relu Costan".split);

console:
["A", "very", "nice", "string"];
["Relu", "Costan"];
```
- Another method is the joint method which is essentially the opposite of split. So let's create an array, which contains all I just said. So we want to start with Mr. Then the first name and so that's gonna be the second element of this array and then the last name in uppercase and now I want to join this and again we can specify a divider string and hopefully you can see by now where this is going. So let's store the result of this into new name, and then let's check it out in the console.
```
const [firstName, lastName] = "Relu Costan".split(" ");
const newName = ["Mr.", firstName, lastName.toUppercase()].join(" ");
console.log(newName);

console:
Mr. relu Costan
```

- So indeed we now get one entire string here. So one string composed of the three parts of this array and joined together by this joining string here basically.
  